Hi, everybody. Welcome back to the Data Science Hangout. I'm Rachel Dempsey. I lead customer
marketing here at Posit. And I just want to add this in here because I learned that a
few people are actually hearing about Posit for the first time through the Hangout. I'm
going to mute people that unmuted. There we go. Curtis and KJ, I'll rely on you to mute people
there. But I did just learn some people are hearing about Posit through the Hangout. So I
want to add if Posit is new to you as well. We're the open source data science company building
tools for the individual team and enterprise. So I'm so happy to have you joining us here today.
The Hangout is our open space to hear what's going on in the world of data across different industries,
chat about data science leadership, and connect with others who are facing similar things as you.
We get together here every Thursday at the same time, same place. So if you're watching this as
a recording in the future on YouTube and want to join us live, there'll be details to add it to
your calendar below. And just make sure it has it for 12 Eastern Time so that you can join us live.
But if this is your first Hangout today, a special welcome to you. Feel free to let us
know in the chat as well so we can all say hi. We're all dedicated to keeping this a friendly
and welcoming space for everyone and love to hear from you all no matter your years of experience,
titles, languages that you work in, industries. It's also totally okay if you just want to listen
in here and you can just comment in the Zoom chat and get to know people who are there as well.
But there's also three ways you could jump in and ask questions or provide your own perspective.
So you can raise your hand on Zoom and I will call on you to jump in. You can put questions
in the Zoom chat and feel free to put a little star next to it if it's something you want me
to read out loud instead. And then Curtis or KJ will share the Slido link in a second here
where you can ask questions anonymously. But with all that, thank you so much for joining us. And
I'm so excited to be joined by my co-host for the day, Laura Ellis, VP of Data at Rapid7.
And Laura, to kick us off here, would you be able to introduce yourself and share a little
bit about your role, but also something you like to do outside of work too?
Okay. Thank you, Rachel, for having me on and reaching out. This is really exciting. And like
what a good crowd that you have. That's hard to get. So this is really fun. So I'm VP of Data and
AI at Rapid7. And what that means is I lead everything from our internal to external data
and AI strategy. So that's things like our internal enterprise data warehouse, analytical
tooling. I have some level of analysts that focus on internal analytics on my team. And in fact,
actually, I just, sorry, Cliff, I'm going to call you up. I just saw my colleague Cliff Stevens
joined, which is so great. And so he's the VP of Marketing at Rapid7. And he has a team too,
because we have decentralized analytical layer. And then I also have data from a product
perspective. So all of the products that we make, they obviously have data as well. And so our
central data strategy there, and then leveraging that to do AI to impact our customer. So that's
the whole realm, but I'd be happy to dig into it because it's kind of high level.
Okay. And the fun thing, oh, sorry, go ahead, Rachel.
Oh, I was just going to remind you of the fun thing too.
I know, right? Okay. So usually, so I'm a mom, I have a husband, I have two girls, 11 and eight,
and I have two dogs and we like to go hiking and stuff. And usually I'm like, I'm not that fun,
but I actually am doing something kind of fun. So my 11 year old daughter is playing the guitar
and she's pretty good at it. Actually, she's awesome. And she wanted me to learn as well
with her. So since August, I've been learning how to play the guitar and she's so good. I actually
really understand how good she is because she's so much better than me. And it's very difficult.
I love that. That's amazing. And yes,
together. Not really, because when I play, she's frustrated at how much worse I am than her,
but we like to listen to each other play. And sometimes we play easy songs together.
That's great. Laura, I also wanted to maybe kick this off with having you share a little bit about
data mishaps night as well, because I learned recently that some people found about the hangout
through a data mishaps night and conversation that was happening there. So I want to make sure
we share a bit about it as well. Could you share a bit about what that event is and how the group
came to be? Totally. Yeah. So data mishaps night, we just finished our fourth year. It's an event,
virtual event that we run one time a year. My friend, Caitlin Huden and I, who actually met
through Our Ladies, pause it, previously Our Studio. And so we met through Our Ladies about
eight years ago and then just became super good friends. And it was during COVID that we would
go on hikes together and we were just like, I miss the meetups. And so we decided to do this
virtual event. But what we wanted to do is a little bit of a different take and talk about
our mistakes. Because on LinkedIn, and I mean, me too, everyone's like, oh, all these great things
we can do and everything we should do and all the successes. But you don't hear about the failures
as much. And in data, because in data, data fails silently, right? So it can look real, but it's
deceiving you. So it's really, really, really important that we're open to being wrong and
we're open to asking questions and just sort of like being humble. And so we wanted to have this
event where everybody could share the data mistakes that they've made, get a little laugh out of it,
learn a few things. And we just finished our fourth year and I think we got close to 400 people,
which is amazing. If you think about that there's 400 people out there that want to spend
an evening talking about data for two hours, it's pretty cool.
That's great. How do you carry that over into your role at Rapid7 and the data community
within the company? Well, I probably should more formally carry it over. Maybe Cliff and I
can collaborate. And Cliff just came to join, but I'm just pulling you in here. Maybe we should
collaborate on something a little bit more formal. But personally, I think we have a pretty
good culture of communicating and sharing and just being open about our mistakes and
creating that safe space. I think that's what we're going for on the data teams as well, just because
again, I think our successes and the things that we're good at are basically just a result
of everything we've studied and all the failures we've made. So we really need to make sure that
we're supporting that. Do you want me to add to that, Laura? Pardon? Do you want me to add to that
of what you're doing at Rapid7 that you may not even realize? Oh man, I don't know. I think part
of it is also just the data education, right? Where we're at, what are the trends, what are
the central sources of truth? That's why I joined today because I was super interested and I saw
Laura's LinkedIn post promoting this and I was like, okay, well, this is going to be a great moment
for me to learn from a bunch of industry pros just because I don't have that kind of innate data
perspective. And that's something that Laura drives that are from a culture perspective at Rapid7
and to the point of like, well, I'm here today is to kind of listen in on that. And I think that's
such a grounding moment because of just the complexity of data strategy, data architecture,
tech that's in there, data flows, user experiences, and also how it impacts teams like our marketing
department where we're looking at a connected based journey, right? Basic things on that side
of CDPs and what those look like. And so that's an area where I think for us to get grounded and
Laura's done a really good job of establishing the value and the quality and the current state of
where we are and then also the opportunities within that. So she's humble in that nature too,
but it's also just been like, how do you have a voice of like, how do you create that data
strategy across the organization? And so she's done a really nice job with that. And that's why
I was like, okay, well, how's she leveraging the community and the people out there and what are
they getting for insights and what are the challenges here? So I can at least then champion
that perspective back on the marketing end on my end. So. Awesome. Thank you. Yeah. Thanks for
joining us as well. Laura, I know you gave us a little bit of an overview of all the different
teams that kind of roll up to you as well and teams you work with. Would it be possible to
share an example maybe of how you're using data across the organization just to put us all in
your mindset and think of the types of business problems you're working on? Yeah, it's a good
question because it honestly, it's really varied. It's really, really varied. So our internal
analytical team focuses on everything and my enterprise data warehouse team, right? Like
they focus on everything from running the business. I mean, I heard a good talk the other
few weeks ago that we shouldn't undersell the value of just like plumbing things,
sending data where it needs to be so that people can get the information that they need.
So everything from running the business to creating like more strategic assets around
value realization or even managing risk at the company, like risk of a variety of angles,
even like product quality. So again, on the analytical side, it's every, it's really around
running of the business use cases, which involves both the data plumbing as well as
the using of the data to make decisions. And then on the product side, we have a really cool
few projects going on right now. So everybody's in this big race for AI, right? We all on this
call know this and we too are running as fast as we can. Somebody said something like you're trying
to outrun a tidal wave, basically. So, or tsunami even, I think. So we're doing that too. And we're
run, run, run, run. And we have some really cool AI projects, some which are, so I'll give you an
example. So we're in cyber, I'm in cybersecurity. It's just that, you know, Rapid7 is a cybersecurity
company. And some of the biggest challenges with cybersecurity is it's such a volume game,
right? Like in, if you're using our tools, you have to protect the entire landscape of all of
your assets, all of your software, all of the granular pieces of software across on-prem to
cloud and active threats. And so people that are doing cybersecurity have a tough job. They're,
they're basically just looking at mountains of alerts and trying to decide like, where should I
spend my time? Which vulnerability should I remediate? And so on the AI side, we leverage
both the traditional ML, sorry, ML to do things like kind of auto processing of alerts so that we
can help people get to the things they need to look at faster. But we're also using LLMs to do,
like, we have our own chat bot internally too. I think a lot of companies do, but we have our
own proprietary one that our analysts use. We do auto generation of incident reports. The first
draft with LLMs, we're using LLMs even to actually develop some of our vulnerability content in ways
that would have been done completely different. So those are some of the product. So those are
some of the projects. And then I guess the last thing I'll say is, and if you want to do all that,
you better have good data. And so we also have a whole effort going on this year to really like
unify all of the different product data so that we can get access to it easier.
Thank you for that, that overview. I know in the like bio that you sent over as well, you added,
you have a passion for making AI and analytics accessible to everyone in a secure and scalable
manner. And so I was just wondering, could you share a little bit more about how you're working
towards that goal as well? So I think, because it's the two things, it's the secure and scalable
and accessible. And so I think it's funny because in a lot of my journey, it would have been more
analytically focused where, you know, we have to make sure that all data, this is not the fun stuff,
but honestly, I kind of think it's fun. It's like, we have to categorize all of the data. We have to
have policies. We need to make sure that all users have a role. And then we need to make sure that
people have access granted as for the policies. This seems maybe not as fun, but it just feels
so good to have these things clean and running well. And it's really important. And then,
but I also think enablement is super important. So our team does every data set that we roll out,
you, like we've gone through a huge transformation, every data set that you roll out, like we have to
have documentation. Every new addition that we do, we usually have a blog on it. We have a monthly
newsletter where it's like, if you're a data or AI nerd, you can see everything that's going on in
the past month. Every tool has to have a getting started and a weekly office hours as well. So
that's kind of what we do on the analytical side. And then the AI side we're ramping up there,
but it's pretty similar. Like we just got all of our policies finalized and our technical
infrastructure to make sure we can see what models are out there. And then there's never
enough AI people right now. Like there just aren't, there's not enough data scientists,
all these wonderful people on this call, there aren't. So with these AWS services or Google
services, how do we turn developers into data scientists, but keep them on the rails? So we
do a lot of enablement as well. Yeah, that's actually something that came up last week as
well, is talking about hiring people for these roles and how a lot of the job descriptions are
asking for years of experience with AI when a lot of this is so new. And so I'm wondering,
how do you think about hiring as well for those roles? Yeah, we have actually, right before this
call, we were going over our road. I was meeting with our AI and data science team to go over our
roadmap because, you know, we have sheets of projects that we want to do and not enough
people. And so we're going through and saying like, what do we have to do ourselves and what
can we teach people how to do? So we do like a research sprint with them and then we help
bootstrap the making of it and then we teach them to run with it. So it's not an exact answer to what
you said, but how do we think about the hiring is that with all these cloud services where,
no, we're not leveraging ChatGPT out of the box, but we do leverage like AWS Bedrock and like some
of the cloud models, et cetera. You know, our developers already work in AWS. They can call
those APIs and we can help them with the prompt engineering around that, for example. And so
when we think about who to hire, I would say, yes, we do need more AI data science people who know
what they're doing and can really focus on that research aspect. But we also just need to skill up
a lot of the developers as well to be able to use the services and know the guardrails and know where
and how to get help.
Thank you. I see Rogerio had a question in the chat. I see the little star next to it, so I'll
read it. But it's, can you talk a little about the data pipeline from the company databases to the
traditional ML models? And there was a follow-on question, is the data warehouse still used?
So it's different for analytics versus production because I don't know, this is my biased view.
Like, so Snowflake's obviously very, very popular for analytical workloads.
I think it gets very expensive when, if you're talking about production, like product,
data workloads. So they tend to be a little bit different, right? Like your analytical warehouse
and pipelines versus the product. The analytical pipelines also, some of that can be batched.
Like, it doesn't all have to be real time. You know, we can pay for tools that are a bit more
focused on the end user versus, like the analytical user versus developer experience. And we don't
have to pay for real time necessarily for everything on the analytic side.
Whereas on the product side, we probably need real time. We're probably looking more like Kafka
and like Flink processing and more distributed query layer type of access, like Starburst,
Trino, et cetera. And yeah, so I'd say that those are kind of, that's kind of what we're looking,
we have more analytical patterns on the internal side, and then we have more of that like real time
production level for product. I don't know if that answered the question.
Rogerio, feel free to type into the chat if you have any follow-up question on that too.
All right. I'll say people are a little quiet today, so I want to remind people how you can
ask questions. So, if you join after I said this in the beginning, just a reminder, you can use
the Zoom chat for questions, but also feel free to just raise your hand here in Zoom if you need
to know how to do that. In the bar below, there's the reactions button, and then you can click that
and raise your hand. But then we do have the Slido link where you can ask questions anonymously too.
But I do see there's this kind of conversation that happens in the chat quite a bit about,
well, we've called it data stewardship before, we call it data governance before, but I see Shannon
mentioned defining access and permissions can feel uphill, but once that's in place, everything
works so much smoother. And so, I'd like to dive a little bit deeper into that topic as well and
just understand what you're doing to help make that easier across the organization and defining
access to certain data sets for everybody. Yeah. So, this is the interesting thing. So, in a past
role, so I've always, I've been in data for almost 20 years, I've done all different data roles from
like software engineering to databases, to data analysis, to data science, architecture,
and then on to the leadership. And I kind of like dabbled in the security, but I never felt it so
badly until we, in one of my previous roles, went to get FedRAMP certification. So, it's like
federal compliance with your security protocols. And I can tell you that gets so serious so quickly.
And it was really hard, but it's almost like cathartic that once you kind of get it all
organized, it feels so good. So, anyways, I say that because in a weird way, I actually
really like this stuff. I really like the labeling and categorization of data and providing access.
But the one thing I would say is, it's always better to keep it simple. It is always better
to keep it simple. Less categories, less users, like less categories, data categories, keep them
broad as you can. You'll have special exceptions, less roles of users. Again, you'll have some
special exceptions, but try to keep the main categories for data pretty broad and the users
for pretty broad so that the rules are pretty simple. Because even though I think if you set
out to it and you're asking everybody and you're trying to like make this beautiful thing, it's
actually not practical and it's actually less secure because you have way too much to conform
to. People don't understand the rules. They don't understand why they can't access the data.
They start to develop these weird workarounds. It's better to keep it really simple, really
transparent. That's the advice I would give. But at the end of the day, I guess the other thing is
that's the advice I would give. And then this is just one of those things that you just have
to do it, but you can sleep really well when you do.
The list of things you just have to do first.
Well, thank you for that, Laura. I'd love to also talk a little bit more about your journey
into data as well and a little bit about your career journey. So I'm wondering like was there
maybe a turning point for you or when did you first like decide to go into the field of data?
Yeah. So I did software engineering in school because this is why I love data though, actually.
I bet everybody on this call has such a different path to data. It's so cool. I feel like there's
not as many specialties where it's just such a wide range of people converging on data because
it's like a language and everybody needs it. And then you kind of get that hooked and then you can
invest more and more. So I came a bit more on the traditional path of software engineering.
I joined IBM one year out of school and I just happened to join the DB2 team, which is a database
most people probably don't know on this call, but it was very popular back in the day.
And that was my job. And I was like, I kind of like this. And then from there, this is
a crazy aging thing. Actually, dashboards, online dashboards became a new thing.
This is, there was a time in the world when online dashboards were bleeding edge and I thought that
is awesome. So I kind of, I followed that. And then this is also kind of neat. Like
I had my first child in 2012 and in Canada, no 2013, just so my daughter's born on New Year's
so January 1st, 2013. And in Canada, you get one year off. So this was actually pretty cool
because data this whole time and including until now has been on this upwards rise,
like almost exponential. And so even back in 2012, the same thing was happening.
And I was just sort of like following it and seeing, and I was excited by it. But at the
same time I was getting excited, the industry was too, and it was getting more accessible.
But I went on maternity leave for one year. Before I went on maternity leave, I was doing
analysis, but more like make me this report, make me this report. And nobody really cared
about what I was doing because they just wanted their reports. I came back from maternity leave
one year later and everyone was like, tell me about data. Tell me about data. Because there
was this article that was posted, kind of a cheesy title, but it was like sexiest job of
the 21st century. And everybody just got so excited by it. And they were stopping me to
ask about my job. And I'm used to being the person sitting in a cubicle, just like pulling numbers.
And so then I ended up getting into data science and I went and got my master's
because some of the questions that they were asking weren't just analysis. They weren't just
like what happened. They were like, what will happen? Predictive analytics. How are these
populations different? So you're seeing, you're doing like T-tests or whatever, ANOVA testing.
And I was like, I don't know how to tell you these answers because we don't have data for that. I
can't tell you what will happen in the future. What do you want from me? And that's when I started
exploring statistics, getting into data science. Then I kind of went on a tear about realizing how
horrible data actually is. And we should focus on the pipeline. That's how I got into the
architecture data engineering side. And then you kind of have that thing where you're like,
it's actually the people. And that's how I got into leadership. So that was my long-winded journey,
but I just kind of kept following that next thing that seemed interesting.
That's great. Thank you, Laura. I see there's a question from N. Bradley in the chat and there's
an asterisk there. So maybe lots of us are working at coffee shops today, so I'll read it. But it's
working in a field that puts so much pressure on hard skills. What soft skills did you feel
benefited you most in your career to progress and through various leadership roles?
Oh my gosh, right? It's so true because the thing is, and I feel like we've all heard the saying,
like, what got you there? What got you here won't get you there. So you can build all your hard
skills and then you get to promotion. And we do see it. Like, I do see it. Developers will get
promoted to like lead or manager. And all of a sudden, they don't have any of those soft skills
to actually get the job done, work with their peers, communicate what they're doing. And so
hard skills, technical skills, it's super duper important, but also we have to be focusing on the
soft skills too. And I think communication is like the number one thing. Communicating
what you think they're asking you to do, what you're going to do, what you say you're going to
what you think they're asking you to do, what you're going to do, what you said you'd do,
what you did, what you didn't do. You can't communicate too much. And then the second,
maybe just off the top of my head is probably partnership. I think a lot of on the technical
side, we're really incentivized to produce, produce, produce, produce, produce. But once
you get into leadership, your version of producing is really like through influence,
through others, like with influence, with others, whether it's your team or across or up. And so
you really have to have that real partnership focus to be able to drive the results.
Absolutely. I love all the comments in the chat as well. Libby, I appreciate your comment about
soft skills there too. Curtis, I think you had a question a little bit earlier. I think it was on
maybe data security issues. Do you want to ask that question?
Yeah, I mean, sure. Since you have quite a bit of experience with data security,
and there's a lot of practitioners and leaders in here, I was kind of curious if you had
maybe examples or advice on the kind of the big vectors of concern as an individual contributor
or an org should be worried about. And then it's always best to hear real world examples
if you have some good gossip you want to share. Oh man, oh man, oh man. That's a good one.
So I think, again, it depends on the systems. And maybe I'm thinking too tactically,
because I'm like, what do you exactly want to do? But at the end of the day,
when you're thinking about data security, you have to, I feel like it's so simple,
so I hope it's even helpful, but you have to be able to see everything, first of all. So you have
to get it all down, get it all visible. What are all of the systems, let me say this, which store
or process your data? Because they're all in scope. So identify all of the systems which store
or process your data. And then you have to identify what is the data. And that kind of goes
to the categories thing, but you have to really get the lay of the land. And then you have to
identify, what are we allowed to do with it? But not just as per our opinion, as per our legal
policies, and then our company values and ethics. And those are the most important pieces.
See everything, understand what it is, and how can we use it. And then it's really like a matching
game therein. And then you make the policies, you implement the policies, and you monitor and
audit the policies. It sounds so boring, but it's really, it's that simple. And what I would say
is, it sounds so boring, but it is that simple. And it can seem really daunting,
right? It can seem really daunting. Everyone's coming up to you with their own special thing, but
you just have to stay focused on doing those core buckets, setting up your foundation, and then you
can build from there. And the reason I'll say this, the reason I'm trying to be like, it's not
that hard. I think everybody, I think people in the industry have worked out their basic data
governance. You just got to work through it. But I think, I just released a blog on this.
We're running, we are running towards a disaster on the AI governance front. It's the same thing.
You got to see what you're working with. You got to know the data it feeds in. You got to know how
you're allowed to use it. You got to have a policy. You got to implement. You got to audit.
And people are making AI governance into this scary, unachievable thing. And if we thought
data governance was a problem in the past, AI governance is going to be our nightmare in five
years if we don't get a handle on it. Sorry, I took out my soapbox. I stepped on it. I started.
No, I was just going to say, I love the way that you make everything sound so practical.
Don't make it so scary. This is how you should do it. But then I was like,
oh, it got a little scary towards the end. Yeah. So yes, you're right. It is not scary.
None of it's scary. And I'm like, just do the same thing for AI. It's also not scary. What's
scary is if you don't do that. So just make your basic foundation layer. Because people will say,
I'll talk to them like, I only have two models. Why do I need to do that? I'm like,
yes, because you only have two models now. Guess what? Your company is going out making all these
models. Why wait? Yeah. Mike, I see your hand raised. Want to jump in next?
Thanks, Rachel. The discussion of soft skills versus hard skills lit something in me.
And I'm sure we've discussed it before in Data Science Hangout. But why do we even make a
distinction? Because it kind of suggests that hard skills are acceptable. Doesn't matter if
you're a sociopath. And that's just, that doesn't, doesn't, as a manager of people, I'm like, no,
no, I don't, I'm not going to employ someone who's employ someone who's just, you know,
walks over everyone and behaves in really awful ways. So shouldn't we kind of just say, look,
it doesn't matter if you think it's a hard skill or a soft skill. Because if you don't have a good
blend of both, and if you don't have basic, basic skills of talking to people and managing with
people and working with people, then it doesn't matter how good you are at stuff.
I couldn't agree more. I couldn't agree more. And I think, so sometimes, again,
when talking to those developers who are moving up, because they're really good at the hard skills,
so they can just get things done. Just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Look, I executed, I executed,
I executed. Then they get a promotion. And then all of a sudden they're not able to execute.
It's like, how do you think you, you know, you're a smart person, you know, saying this to them,
you're a smart person. You want to do big things. You've, you've got all these hard skills.
You don't have enough hours in the day. So how do you solve that? You get other people to work
with you. How do you get other people to work with you? Other skills than these technical skills.
But I agree. I mean, I guess there's, I guess there's a time and place if you're in a startup
where the pressure's on and everyone's, you know, in a high anxiety and, you know, high,
just wanting to get things out the door, you know, that is about the only circumstance in which you,
in case you might get away with not having the working with other people skills honed,
but everywhere else, it's like, no, you, you, you need these non-negotiable.
And there's a ceiling to you if you don't really.
Exactly. Exactly. I think I've worked with one person in the long past who seemed to have
absolutely zero soft skills, but he was a prickly and awkward customer, but he did know everything
about how to get data in and out of databases. So in that sense, you know, it was something going
for him. He was useful in some ways. David, I see you had a question in the chat as well.
Want to jump in next? Yes, ma'am. How are you? How's everybody doing? Hey, Laura.
Hi. Thank you for calling. Oh my gosh. David, David. Hi, David. Great to see you.
Good to see you too. It's been a while. You talked a little bit about, you know, what,
what productivity is for somebody that has to do versus somebody that has to lead.
So I'm just curious as to over the years, what has been your most difficult things to change
or to do going from somebody that actually does the technical work to becoming somebody that leads
to technical work? And how did you change your habits to, to be able to accomplish that?
Yeah, that's a good, that's a good question. And there's probably so many of them. And every time
you think like I've got this handled, you know, you're gifted with new opportunities,
which also expose new areas of growth for you as well. Like for me personally, I'm saying,
I think so for me, I am for better or worse. I like to think strategy, but I am a list slayer.
Like I just like to have a list and I just like to work through it as well. And so I can be really
focused on getting things done. And so I think having to become more patient with enabling people
to do it themselves and maybe not do it, you know, up to a certain standard or,
you know, yeah, basically that is, is going slower to bring other people along. I think that was
something that going from more of a tech focused role to more of a leadership role was something
that took me a while to orient to. And I think a lot of technical people might face that as well,
because you're used to going at a certain speed and I have to bring everybody with you. And this
is a beautiful thing, but you event, you have to start by going slower than you normally would.
And eventually you all go faster together.
No, great answer. I appreciate that. And I, and I see that the hardest thing has been to,
to realize there's different ways things can be done. Yes. And it may not be the way I would have
done it, but it gets the job done and I need to not worry about that anymore to let them do the
job the way it needs to be done or they can do it. Thank you. I appreciate it. That's a good point,
David, because it's like, they may not, you might think they're missing something, but then they have
other things that they are doing that you didn't even think of too. I agree. Definitely. So you
got to be open to all of that. Yeah. I noticed there was an anonymous question I missed a little
bit earlier, but when we were talking about AI, it was, should we consider AI to be something
that current analysts can pick up as part of their job? Or should we think of it as a new profession?
I think, so it's a hard one. I think that it's, it's emerging as a different set of,
it depends how you call yourself, how you define an analyst, because honestly,
that is hard too. We have like data analysts, business analysts, we have analytic engineers,
we have data engineers. So I think we have this like spectrum anyways, with a whole lot of overlap.
So I do think AI warrants its own title. Now it may have a 90% overlap with what a data scientist
is. And a data scientist may have an 80% overlap with an analyst. So I wouldn't, I wouldn't get
caught up on the roles. I wouldn't get caught up on like, I'm the same as them, but they have a
different title, which I know the person is not saying. But I think it's enough of a new area
that it does warrant at least making room for a title like that, because we're dealing with
concepts that we didn't really have in broad population before, like LLMs. And they have
different considerations around them, around data leakage. They have sort of different out-of-the-box,
like really viable out-of-the-box cloud services that we didn't have before.
Like there were always providers that said, oh, I can do out-of-the-box ML, and it's kind of
hit or miss. But these really, like you can really get really good out-of-the-box LLMs. LLMs really
do leak data. LLMs really do say crazy things. And they really do not always have transparency.
And even when they have transparency, sometimes it's not real. So I think it warrants having a
title. Whether an analyst also can do that, I think go for it. I think anybody can do that.
I think AI and a lot of what I just described is super accessible. And that's why everyone's
talking about it so much, because it's become so accessible to the general population. So I'd say,
regardless of your title, go for it if you're interested. And probably every single
profession out there will be using some level of AI in the next five years or two years even.
I don't know if I answered that question well. I kind of like went all the way around back.
I think you did. We won't know who anonymously asked it, but I'll say I think you did.
I thought we're jumping back and forth here, but I see Brian had a question, and you put a
star next to it, so I'll read it. But it was, are there any special strategies or difficulties with
using data to identify threat actors or attack patterns? Yeah. So using data or what was the
other thing to identify threat actors and attack patterns? Special strategies, any special
strategies or difficulties with using data to identify threat actors? Yes. So there's definitely
lots you can do out there, because all of our computers are generating oodles of data which
encode kind of what's going on. And we do already at the company leverage a lot of machine learning
to be able to identify patterns, whether it's patterns of type of attacks. So if we're looking
for a particular type of attack, you know, we can look through all the logs and then start to say
when this, this, this, this, this happens, it's typically this type of attack. And we do have
those. You can also, so that's more like on the detection side. I think ML does a really good job
being able to detect threats, active threats, on the what do I do about this, which is like
alert triage. So you get a detection, it pops up alert, boom, boom, boom, look at this thing, right?
Well, of course, you want as many of those as possible, but you're going to get
so many. So how do you prioritize or get rid of the volume? Also, ML is specifically pretty good
at that as well, being able to do things like clustering. So these type of alerts are typically,
they all are part of the same attack. So rather than an analyst, just looking through them and
having to make the association themselves, we can look at prior patterns and put clusters together.
So they should look at them all. And then, you know, relative to a customer's environment
or their baseline patterns, we could say, oh, actually, this is a, this is more malicious
than we would think, because this customer never does this type of thing, right?
So we can boost up the signal or reduce the signal. And then on the response side as well,
that's where you can start really, that's where like, so we already did those two things,
but that's where you can really start leveraging the LLM side of the house, because you can start
baking in context into the investigation that they're doing from other data and summarize it
with the LLM. So analysts can get data easier, easier, easier. Yeah. So, so there's, so I guess
the answer is like, yes, there's so much you can do because cybersecurity is all about digital
trails, which is just data at the end of the day. The hard thing, limitations, the hard thing
is that A, attackers are changing their patterns all the time. So where you think machine learning
AI is basically trying to predict based on past, but they're building new patterns every day. So
that's, that is difficult. We can do anomaly baselines and things. And then the second thing
that is hard too, is that they're using AI as well. So as we're beefing up with AI,
they're using it too, because they're also essentially a resource constrained entity too,
that is leveraging AI to also go better, faster, stronger, which I'd be happy to talk to, but it's,
it's kind of a lot of companies out there are using AI to just be more efficient and that's
great. And they're just getting those gains. So are we, but we are also facing active headwinds
from that as well. Yeah. Thank you, Laura. I think Doug just asked the question in the chat
and I'd love to have you jump in Doug. Yeah, sure. Sure. It's a very general careers question,
but Rachel, you were, you were touching on, you know, this, this, this business of people,
people trying to, to work out how to get a first data science job or first ML job in particular.
Yeah. Seems it's very hard unless you have three to five years of solid data science experience.
That's, that's my experience and people are getting filtered out, not getting interviews.
Seems that some people agree. Some people are also finding this. Yeah.
Yeah. I see a few people commenting on your thread there and agreeing. And I did want to
just make sure I mentioned if anybody is hiring, feel free to share your jobs in the chat here
as well with everybody too. I forgot to say that at the beginning, but thank you for the reminder.
Mm-hmm. So, and I think like the question was, do you have any tips for anybody starting to move
into data science? Yeah, I would say, well, there's a kind of cool thing that's happening
now too though is, so there's the postings for data science and AI and ML. But I would suggest
just getting like a data type of job and then starting to deliver AI and ML. If you, if you
can't, if you want to do the data science, AI, ML, whatever we call it, if you want to do a job like
that and you're finding it too hard to get it, my, my thing is get your foot in the door, get a job
doing some level of a data job, and then just start delivering as well. I mean, you're going
to have to put in some of your own time because you got to do the job you have as well, but I,
I would start finding opportunities and work to deliver that, and then you can kind of like
transition your career as you go. But that's what I would do. I don't know if anybody else has
suggestions too. Yeah, Krishna or Cody or Bill, I see you put comments in there. Do you want to,
do you want to add anything?
Oh, Peter, I see your hands raised. Want to jump in?
Yeah, I think one of the things that I would really recommend strongly for folks is,
and I learned this myself when I'm hiring, is I'm looking for folks who are producing
some level of work. So being able to share your work, whether you're just starting to produce,
you know, work in a GitHub account, that could be something as simple as taking a data set,
exploring it, building visualizations, and going through a traditional VDA workflow,
evaluating and deriving inferences from that, and just as you would in an ordinary job where
you're giving takeaways or recommendations to the stakeholder. I'd also recommend if folks
invest small amounts of time in just writing up small documents. One of the things that people
use LinkedIn all the time for is to generate ideas. And they're looking for ideas from people
who can engage with data and communicate. I couldn't agree more with what Laura said about
communication. I think that as a data science leader, I think I've spent a fair amount of time,
half and half, between folks who prefer working with machines and folks who prefer working with
people. And so bridging that gap and being able to communicate really sets yourself apart from
probably a dominant majority of folks. And that is a great opportunity to show your work.
So I would say, you know, publish if you can, small amounts of time will pay you big dividends.
And it's also a way of demonstrating that what you're trying to accomplish with your realistic
future. Absolutely. Thank you, Peter. Ghoshma, I see you have your hand raised now. You want to
add to this? Yeah. Hi, Laura. Long time. I think definitely putting yourself out there, right? Add
into what Peter said about publishing, whether that's an article on LinkedIn or just like, you
know, a quick TikTok reel about, hey, this is the school data set I found. These were the findings.
And, you know, here's a link to whatever, you know, artifact you have. I think also looking
at meetups, community meetups, they are always on the hunt for speakers. I know it can be scary to
speak publicly, but, you know, just try to give it a shot, see what it feels like. Because what
that happens is that eventually people start thinking of you as an expert when you're out
there on the stage talking about different things. And you gain that confidence and it also increases
your visibility to potential employers, to potential managers. So I think combining that
with the networking aspect of it is another way to, you know, stand out a bit. I love that. Great
idea. If anybody wants to give a lightning talk at that, let me know. Yes. I couldn't agree more
with both of those. Those are so good too, right? The learning out loud. Absolutely. Well, I know
as we start to get towards the end of time, I want to make sure I always ask this question.
But as you look back and think about career advice that you've either received over your
career or given to others on your team, is there a piece of career advice you'd like to share with us?
So I think there's two. So the one I always say is like, just get started, whatever it is.
If we're talking about the governance, it's like, I need to stop talking about governance so much
because people are going to think that I'm so obsessed with, you know, governance and data policy.
But whether it's that or whether it's learning a new AIML technique or, you know,
getting, learning dbt, I'm just making it up, right? Like, just get started. You just keep going.
And then it's so funny when you just keep going and you just take all those gremlins off your
shoulder that are telling you, you can't, you're not good enough. Who do you think you are?
Right? Like, just get them off, get going. And, you know, to Grishna's point, what you'll do is you'll
find out like five months, one year later, two years later, all of a sudden, you're actually,
you've built some skills. You're pretty good at this. Maybe you're even seen as an expert, right?
So the just get started is my number one. And then the other thing is, it's like,
you know, I don't know about the people in this room, but sometimes you can find yourself
in a position where you've been given a big project or something and you think,
and especially like people in this, I mean, data and AI, data science, whatever that we call it is
changing so quickly. You know, I think probably a lot of people in this room are getting these
new challenging projects or growing themselves in one way or another. And you're thinking like,
can I do this? Should this really be me? Like, shouldn't, is there somebody more qualified than
me to be doing this or speaking about this or whatever? And I would just say like, you know,
everybody here is entirely unique, brings entirely their own set of skills to the table,
their own perspective, life experiences, whether it's, you know, all these hard skills or
all these tech skills, or, you know, more breadth of leadership or responsibility experience.
There's nobody that has a super set of your skills out there. There's literally nobody who
has lived your life and then has everything else you don't have. So trust yourself that you're
pursuing this thing, you're in that new role, you're having that new project for a reason,
and you will be good. I love it. Thank you. I want to make sure I don't miss questions that
have been asked a little bit earlier. So raise your hand if I missed something that you said.
But Benjamin, you just added something a minute ago around how people are handling the flood of
applications. Do you want to jump in and explain that a bit? Oh, yeah, no, I don't know if it's just
bemoaning the current tightness of the job market, but it just seems like a kind of an unfortunate
scenario where, you know, as an applicant, you feel kind of like you have to go for volume.
But then I'm sure on the hiring side, that's just overwhelming. You're just getting tons and tons of,
you know, the gamut of quality of applications, but probably a lot of just kind of spammy ones
as well now, all AI generated and just kind of feel I'm not quite sure what the solution is,
but or how hiring orgs are handling it. But it feels kind of unideal for both job seekers and
people hiring. So, yeah, just kind of throwing that out there.
It's like the opposite of a bottleneck. Don't let's go.
Right. I mean, I would say, too, like that kind of speaks to Peter and Grishma, especially his
point where it's like, yeah, you have all these floods in, but we also know people in communities,
communities like this, you know, that's where it's great to go out there and make those
connections, even if you've never done an ML job, AI job, do science, go reach out to people on
LinkedIn. Like, hey, I would love to do something like you in the future. I would love to work on
your team in the future. Can I ask you a bit about what your daily life looks like? And then I know
you. I think a lot. I think, you know, Benjamin and Doug, probably you would agree. A lot of
hiring is also done through people that, you know, as well. Yeah, yeah, it's a good.
Maybe soft skills are the solution after all. Yeah, getting making those connections and
getting to know people is the kind of counter to an overwhelming the marginal cost of just
creating more volume of online stuff is there. So we've just got to connect with real people.
So, yeah, I encourage you to connect with people that you meet here in the hangout. I do know a
few people who have actually found new roles because they met somebody here in this space,
which I absolutely love to hear. And so I shared the LinkedIn group a little bit easier
or a little bit ago. That sometimes makes it easier to connect. If Curtis or you wouldn't
mind grabbing that link again and sharing it. But I also just wanted to put a call out to
check out Laura's blog as well, which I shared in the chat. And Laura, I I'm so impressed by
all that you do in the community and seeing data mishaps and I reading your blog posts and I'm
wondering how do you set aside time to keep up with that part of it as well? And if you have
any advice for us on doing the same. Thank you. That was very nice. I mean, honestly, I'm I'm
like stressed out. I'm always running around trying to do things, but I really like it.
That's that's really honestly the thing is like I wouldn't do it if I didn't like it.
The data mishaps like Caitlin and I are are. I mean, it's like you could be on a work trip and
you're sending out the link to the Zoom chat or it's it feels a little bit. I mean, honestly,
sometimes I'm like, why did I do that? Why am I doing this? Even I just released that AI governance
blog and I released it and I thought to myself, does anybody even care about AI governance?
You know, but I do. I care about it. And so I wanted to get my thoughts out there
and the data mishaps night it like it fills our bucket. You know, it is hard. I wouldn't say I
have any at all secret for success to doing it all except for that. I really like it and care.
And I think people innately make room for the things that they really do like and that fill
our bucket. That's great. Well, thank you. I'm glad that that is in your
filler bucket and we all get the benefit from that in the community here.
But thank you so much, Laura, for taking the time to join us. I really appreciate it.
Thank you all for the great questions. I love getting to go back and reread the chat
after because I don't get to do it at the same time. But have a great rest of the day. Everybody.
Thank you. Have a great day.